# Security

<!-- TOC depthFrom:2 depthTo:6 withLinks:1 updateOnSave:1 orderedList:0 -->

- [Disclaimer](#disclaimer)
- [Pre-requsite Knowledge](#pre-requsite-knowledge)
- [The Situation](#the-situation)
		- [The Law within the Network](#the-law-within-the-network)
		- [You become Naked when](#you-become-naked-when)
		- [Data Abuse](#data-abuse)
- [Type of Attacks](#type-of-attacks)
- [Do's and Donot's](#dos-and-donots)
		- [Do's](#dos)
		- [Donot's](#donots)
- [What is Personal and Privacy Data](#what-is-personal-and-privacy-data)
		- [Browsers - Best Practice](#browsers-best-practice)
		- [Mobile Device](#mobile-device)
		- [Application - Understand whatever application you're going to install](#application-understand-whatever-application-youre-going-to-install)
		- [Laptop Computer](#laptop-computer)
		- [Backup-ed Data](#backup-ed-data)
		- [Password](#password)
- [Use Case](#use-case)
- [Recommended Solutions](#recommended-solutions)

<!-- /TOC -->

## Disclaimer

We discuss technology only

---

## Internet Social Security


#### The Situation

All non-encrypted message will be censored within the firewalled network. The data within document and PDF format can be analyzed (censored) easily as well. Changing file's extension name won't help. The solution is only either you hand-carry the hard-copy or encrypt it properly

#### The Law within Network

- Currently there is no control for service provider to collect and (ab)use end-user's data from whatever source. There is a sort of law, but there is no-one got punished when apparently breaks it.

#### You become Naked when

- Connect to intenet through home internet service and small business
- All mobile device(s), if all family members connected through together in the same mobile program. All activities on mobile device is transparent (except encrypted data)
- Registering yourself and leaving message and/or post in (Chinese) chat-room, forum, Wechat group, such as Weibo, whatever similar
- SMS
- If using mobile abroad with domestic SIM card through data-roaming (not WIFI), the data goes back to the firewalled network for sure before being routed to its destination
- Do search on Chinese search engine, like Baidu.com. (Bing.com co-works with Baidu.com in domestic search in Chinese language)
- They see there is encrypted message transmitted between 2 IPs, but there is no way to see the actual content

#### Data Abuse

- Some of data collection might be critical, like your ID/ IP, timestamp, location, from-where-to-where, your message recipient... some you might think not very critical, such as just location... they're all collected in most cases. The data collected will be re-sold to anyone who wants to pay

#### Type of Attacks

- Intermittent interrupt when the firewall detects a VPN message without ```tls-crypt``` enabled
- DNS poisoning (use ```8.8.8.8``` and ```8.8.4.4``` anywhere when connecting to internet. or whichever you sure a pure DNS )

#### Do's and Donot's

###### Do's

- HTTPs/ https on web: http protocol with ssl (remember to browser https __always__ and __forever__ no matter where you are on this planet)
- VPN - secured but performance dropped. And it _should_ have ```tls-crypt``` enabled
- Most mobile apps (almost __all__) has built-in encrption by default, such as [Facebook](https://facebook.com), [Instagram](https://instagram.com), [Pinterest](https://pinterest.com), [Quora](https://quora.com), [Twitter](https://twitter.com), [TripAdvisor](https://tripadvisor.com), [LonelyPlanet](https://lonelyplanet.com), [Medium](https://medium.com), etc. ([Skype](https://skype.com) just enables point-to-point encryption)
- Only trust Google and Apple app-store
- If you have your business web, use ```letsencrypt```
- Re-think when giving your ID or phone # to public service, like house rental service provider, or even register your own business at government business control bureau, I'm sure you'll get called soon.
- You can trust bank apps, such as Bank of China, China Merchant Bank, all of them. Those apps are designed at world-class security, in terms of random token management, password, encryption over web

###### Donot's

- Comment political
- Download apps from local app store, as it might be compromised, within the firewalled network
- Connect to wireless when you don't really know (I could name access point as "Starbucks" and turn on wireless router on my mobile phone in public area)
- Consider again when you purchase a mobile device made within the firewalled network.

#### What is Personal and Privacy Data
- Your mobile device location
- Your credit card information
- Your relationship in family
- The message you send to others and received from others, including emails
- Your thoughts of everything
- Your data on your disk

###### Browsers - Best Practice
- 3 browsers
- Clean-up cookie
- SSL enabled or not and check SSL

###### Mobile Device
- Do not use the most Chinese apps, carefully and smartly keep and use them when you have. Remember the most Chinese apps collect your data as much as possible from very beginning. It's not a technical issue. It's highly possibly abusing issue, because there is no law and challenge of the integrity of collectors

###### Application - Understand whatever application you're going to install
- Operator, who can access your personal data
- Where the data is stored
- How secured and encrypted of your personal data
- Carefully read message before installing any app

- What I'm using:
	- Map/ Pay/ Food ordering/ Banks (the most secured and trusted)

- What I don't use
	- ~~heavey and fat apps, Xianyu~~
	- ~~all Chinese browsers, Haitun, Baidu, Tencent~~
	- ~~some suspicious companies, 360, Baidu~~

###### Laptop Computer
- Disk or partition encryption

###### Backup-ed Data
- Encrypt USB disk

#### Password
- Email
- Wechat
- Computer power-on and screen-lock

## Use Case

- If you post a comment on [Quora](https://quora.com), the firewalled network can see your comment, but they can not trace your IP and your registration information
- If you post a comment on [Baidu](https://baiduo.com), the firewalled network can absolutely trace your IP, eg. whether you're at home or a Starbucks when doing posting very easily, and your registration information

## Recommended Solutions

- [Keybase.io](https://keybase.io), [Telegram](https://Telegram.com) and [Slack](https://slack.com)
- [Protonmail.com](https://protonmail.com) vs Gmail.com (and [Outlook](https://outlook.com))
- GnuPG (advanced user)
